# ai-passwords

This is a collection of password lists in which I have trained various deep learning algorithms to try to come up with passwords. A full report of results exists in each directory.

## Models Used

All models are trained against the top 10 million passwords in all of the [hashes.org dataset](https://github.com/rarecoil/hashes.org-list), and then tested against the entire dataset for "cracks" vs. running the wordlists in hashcat.

* **gpt2-small**: Using minimaxir's [gpt-2-simple](https://github.com/minimaxir/gpt-2-simple) with GPT2-small and some of the [hashes.org](https://hashes.org) "founds" dataset. 
* **PassGAN**: [Brannon Dorsey's implementation](https://github.com/brannondorsey/passgan) of the generative adversarial network used in [_PassGAN: A Deep Learning Approach for Password Guessing_](https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.00440). The code is somewhat out of date; so I made a [Python3/TensorFlow 1.15 fork](https://github.com/rarecoil/passgan).

## Performance

This table lists approximate performance metrics for these models. 

Metrics are:

* **Model Name**: The model/folder used to generate the password list.
* **Generated**: The amount of passwords generated by the model.
* **Unique**: The amount of unique passworss generated by the model.
* **In Training Set**: The amount of generated passwords that exist in the training dataset.
* **PW/sec**: Approximate password generation per second, raw.
* **Cracks/sec.**: Approximate novel passwords yielding cracks of the validation dataset per second.
* **Rig**: The computer specifications used for the experiment.

| Model Name | Generated | Unique    | In Training Set | PW/sec. | Cracks/Sec. | Rig |
|------------|-----------|-----------|-----------------|---------|-------------|-----|
|gpt2-small  | 4,726,912 | 4,053,784 | 822,690         | 111     | 12.17       | A1  |
|PassGAN     | 4,999,168 | 4,658,237 | 454,759         | 84516   | 19726.01    | A2  |

### Rig Specifications

This contains hardware specifications used to run the model.

#### Rig A1 "thehaswell" (ROCm)

* Intel Core i7-4790K (Devil's Canyon)
* 32GB DDR3 RAM
* 1 TB NVMe SSD (Samsung 960 Evo)
* Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS, ROCm 2.9.6
* AMD Radeon VII (VBIOS version: 113-D3600200-106)

#### Rig A2 "thehaswell" (CUDA)

* Intel Core i7-4790K (Devil's Canyon)
* 32GB DDR3 RAM
* 1 TB NVMe SSD (Samsung 960 Evo)
* Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS, CUDA 10.1
* NVidia Geforce GTX 1070 Ti Founders Edition

# License

MIT License
